# TradeItEasy: A Stock Trading App

#### Description:

Final Project for CS50x: Introduction to Computer Science by Harvard University

## Technologies
* Python
* Flask 
* SQLite
* HTML and CSS
* Bootstrap


## Summary
TradeItEasy is a web application that allows users to buy and sell stocks (with default allocated pretend money $ 10,000) as well as look up real stock quotes fetched from IEX API. Users can also view their stock portfolio transaction history.

## Views

### Register
Allow a new user to register for an account, rendering an apology view if the form data is incomplete or if the username already exists in the database.

### Change Password
Allow logged in user to change password.

### Index
The homepage displays a table of the logged-in user's owned stocks, number of shares, current stock price, value of each holding. This view also shows the user's imaginary "cash" balance and the total of their "cash" plus stock value.

### Quote
Allows the user to submit a form to look up a stock's current price, retrieving real-time data from the IEX API. An error message is rendered if the stock symbol is invalid.

### Buy
Allows the user to "buy" stocks by submitting a form with the stock's symbol and number of shares. Checks to ensure the stock symbol is valid and the user can afford the purchase at the stock's current market price with their available balance, and stores the transaction history in the database.

### Sell
Allows the user to "sell" shares of any stock currently owned in their portfolio. 

### History
Displays a table summarizing the user's past transactions (all buys and sells). Each row in the table lists whether the stock was bought or sold, the stock's symbol, the buy/sell price, the number of shares, and the transaction's date/time.

After registering and signing in, users will be redirected to the `/index` route. This route represents the assets that the user has bought and amount of cash that is remaining.

## Files

### templates
In this folder you can find all html templates for this repo.

### static
This folder contains JavaScript code and CSS files, to supplement Bootstrap classes.

### app.py
This python file contains all the code functions responsible for views generated by html templates.

### helpers.py
Helper functions for app.py to run, including functions such as lookup(symbol) for searching stock quotes through IEX's API.

### finance.db
Contains tables to store user data in 3 tables namely: users, portfolio and history.
---

The **Login** and **Logout** functions and all functions in **helpers.py** were borrowed from CS50 Pset9: Finance Distribution Code and are not my work. 
